far out in the open sea on a perfectly
calm day
a dot appears on the horizon it grows in
size as it gets closer
and soon you can see it's a ship but
when you look at it through the spy
glass
chills go down your spine the vessel is
in perfect condition
and his cargo is on board but it's
completely devoid of people
drifting listlessly along the current
that was what the captain of the ellen
austin saw
in 1881 and what brought his crew so
many sorrows
in december of the previous year the
ellen austin
a big 210 foot long ship left the port
of liverpool to make its trip to new
york
the ship was carrying a load of people
hoping to find a better life in the new
world
captain aj griffin took the vessel due
southwest for a shorter voyage
and a few weeks into 1881 they found
themselves
north of the sargasso sea known for its
lack of winds and strong circling
currents
ships that got caught in those could
lose control and keep on drifting in
circles
until they were dragged into the center
from there
they'd be incredibly lucky to get back
past the currents
but more often than not they stayed in
the desolate desert of the sea
forever worse still the area belonged to
the notorious bermuda triangle
which was already known to take down
ships and make them disappear without a
trace
the ship's crew were nervous afraid of
being in such a dangerous area
so close to a sea that could bring them
to a standstill
and ominously some of the sargasso seas
calm
must have escaped it because the ellen
austin lost its speed one day
and fell adrift without the winds it was
fine though
they had ample provisions and were still
on schedule
captain griffin was walking around his
ship giving orders in a voice full of
calm authority
and both his crew and passengers trusted
him completely
but then the lookout shouted from above
that a ship was inside
and indeed when the captain looked in
the direction the man was pointing
he saw a small schooner moving slowly
into view and towards the ellen austin
as it came closer it became apparent
that the way the strange vessel moved
wasn't right the captain frowned and
examined it through his spy glass
the schooner was untouched but eerily
silent
there wasn't a single soul on board
derelict ships weren't that rare in the
atlantic at the time
but neither were pirates captain griffin
decided to wait and watch
after two days the schooner was as quiet
as always
and captain finally thought it was fine
to move in
he took a small team of sailors and
boarded the stranded ship
there was nobody there indeed but luck
seemed to be on griffin's side
the precious cargo of mahogany wood was
still in the holes
the captain returned to the ellen austin
and ordered his select men to take the
smaller ship
along to new york the crew's spirits
arose with the prospect of riches
awaiting them upon arrival when the
winds blew strong again
the ellen austin continued its voyage
with the unnamed vessel tagging along
but after a couple of days the ships
were caught in a powerful storm and got
separated
the wind rain and waves beat them for
several days in a row
when the weather finally cleared captain
griffin ordered to find the schooner
they searched for another day until they
finally found it adrift
way off the course griffin hailed his
men
on board the smaller ship but no one
answered
a party of sailors went to investigate
and returned with their faces
white with fear the whole prize crew
went missing in the storm
the captain wasn't one to lose such a
valuable find though
and ordered another team to take control
of the schooner
reluctantly the sailors obeyed and the
two ships continued their voyage
they agreed to stay as close as possible
to one another
and ring their bells at set intervals at
night to let each other know they were
fine
several nights went all right with bells
ringing reassuringly
every hour but one day a thick blanket
of fog
fell on the scene and almost completely
blocked their vision
the ships went on regardless and started
sounding their bells earlier
when night came the fog was still there
but the bells were the sound of life
until they stopped captain griffin rang
the bell once
then twice no answer
the crew lit the fires and looked out
into the sea intently
but the fog hadn't lifted and they
couldn't see a thing in the swirling
abyss
beyond the ship's board nobody could
sleep that night
and they waited in silence until the
break of dawn
the first rays of sun made the fog
slowly disperse
and the whole crew went to the edge of
the deck with heavy hearts
there was still hope in them until the
last strands of the mist went away
revealing a vast calm and most
importantly
empty ocean the nameless schooner was
gone
and so was the second team of the ellen
austin sailors
the ships sailed the rest of the way to
new york in grave silence
once it arrived at the port the
passengers were only too happy to leave
the vessel
and no one so much as turned their head
as a goodbye
that was the ship's last voyage as the
ellen austin
that same year it was sold to a german
shipping company
and renamed metta no one ever found the
derelict schooner or the sailors that
went missing with it
and that would probably be the end of
this mysterious and
unresolved story if it held at least a
little bit of the truth
in reality none of the enematic things
in the narrative
actually happened the ellen austin did
indeed leave
liverpool and headed southwest to new
york and his captain was really aj
griffin
taking people to the american continent
but from here
the story falls apart first of all the
ship went way too
far to the north to pass the sargasso
sea so closely
there was simply no reason to make a
detour so broad
even though the westerly winds were
strong it was still
faster to take them head on than to go
in a southerly direction
so the ellen austin was probably nowhere
near the sargasso sea
and the bermuda triangle secondly the
triangle itself
has been proven time and again to be
nothing but a work of fiction
in fact it gained popularity in the
middle of the 20th century
while nobody even thought of drawing a
triangle in the bermuda area before that
the mystery was popularized by science
fiction riders
and became a common myth while no
serious research proved it any more
dangerous than
other parts of the world's ocean so the
crew of the ellen austin weren't even
aware of the bermuda triangle back
then let alone afraid of it thirdly the
whole story was told and retold by
magazines and mystery loving
personalities
with ever-changing details it first
appeared in a newspaper in 1906
and already had the date wrong the
article said the voyage took place in
instead of 1881. later the story
resurfaced in 1935
on the radio with the wrong name of the
captain it was baker not griffin
the date was also off saying the trip
was taken in august
1881 when the ellen austin was already
renamed
metta the legend grew upon with other
strange details
such as the ship's route from london to
newfoundland which was
never the case but the final debunking
came from the archives of
lloyds of london the marine insurance
market that keeps all logs of trade and
emigration ship routes documents there
say that on february 1881 the ellen
austin completed its cross-atlantic
voyage to new york
without incident captain a.j griffin
off-boarded the ship with all his crew
hail and hearty and declared no loss of
hands during the trip
the voyage took over two months because
the ship had to fight
strong westerly winds pushing it back
towards britain
the crew reported no strange encounters
on the way and the whole thing was as
boring as could be
and even the passengers must have been
smiling when they stepped on the
american
soil at last unaware of the phony
baloney story
they were about to be a part of